README.md, before:

# ImageCaster [![discord-members]][discord] [![gitlab-build]][gitlab] [![gitlab-coverage]][gitlab] [![donate-shield]][elypia-donate]
## About
ImageCaster is a small CLI application that can be used to manage exporting images.
It's primary use case is for CI/CD where a repository that has a set of images as a source
and programatically produces images as a result of a build.

An example, and motivation for this is the [Elypia Emotes] repository where we have
many images, which we'd like exported in many different sizes and colors, as well as
to dynamically generate images to display on the project README.

## Features
* Instead of scripting, define a declarative configuration that describes the output you want.
* Quicker consecutive builds, ImageCaster will manage if changes occured and if re-exported again is required.
* Set [EXIF] data for output, for example the `Copyright` or `Artist` tag.
* Define patterns (directory/[glob]/[regex]) to match images and create montages to display to users.
* Define patterns (directory/[glob]/[regex]) to to match images and archive images for download.
* Define checks to ensure your repository standards are maintained and to avoid mistakes like mismatching names.

## Example
```yml
export:
  input: "src/static/panda(.+).png"
  exif:
    - tag: "Artist"
      value: "Elypia CIC and Contributors"
  sizes:
    dimensions:
      - height: 512
      - height: 128
  colors:
    mask: "src/static/masks/panda$1.mask.png"
    modulate:
      - name: "blue"
        hue: 0
      - name: "violet"
        saturation: 70
        hue: 50
checks:
  - name: "file-exists"
    args:
      source: "src/static/panda(.+).png"
      target: "src/static/projects/panda$1.psd"
```
> First we define a pattern which matches all of our input images.
> For each image we add the EXIF tag, `Artist`, and export 6 versions of each image to 
> accomodate original, blue, and violet colors, in 512px, and 128px sizes.
> Doing `imagecaster build` will do all of this for you.  
> You may wish to use `imagecaster test` first to perform all checks, in this case
> only one check is defined which states if a mask exists, then an image must also exist
> with the respective name.

## Open-Source
This project is open-source under the [GNU General Public License]!  
While not legal advice, you can find a [TL;DR] that sums up what
you're allowed and not allowed to do along with any requirements if you want to 
use or derive work from this source code!  

**All non-code files including videos, models, audio, bitmaps, vectors, and 
animations such as gifs, are not under the aforementioned license; all rights
are reserved by Elypia CIC.** 

[discord]: https://discordapp.com/invite/hprGMaM "Discord Invite"
[gitlab]: https://gitlab.com/Elypia/imagecaster/commits/master "Repository on GitLab"
[elypia-donate]: https://elypia.org/donate "Donate to Elypia"
[Elypia Emotes]: https://gitlab.com/Elypia/elypia-emotes "Elypia Emotes"
[EXIF]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exif "EXIF on Wikipedia"
[glob]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glob_(programming) "Glob on Wikipedia"
[regex]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression "Regular Expression on Wikipedia"
[GNU General Public License]: https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html "AGPL"
[TL;DR]: https://tldrlegal.com/license/gnu-general-public-license-v3-(gpl-3) "TLDR of AGPL"

[discord-members]: https://discordapp.com/api/guilds/184657525990359041/widget.png "Discord Shield"
[gitlab-build]: https://gitlab.com/Elypia/imagecaster/badges/master/pipeline.svg "GitLab Build Shield"
[gitlab-coverage]: https://gitlab.com/Elypia/imagecaster/badges/master/coverage.svg "GitLab Coverage Shield"
[donate-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Elypia-Donate-blueviolet "Donate Shield"

Commit message:

* Changed building from my specific setup to a more flexible and dynamic pipeline stucture * Updated project structure * Make all commands an instance of ICommand, each command will now configure/add itself * Added IResizer interface so ImageCaster can have different implementations for resizing images * Renamed Test back to Check * More standard approach to global arguments, now using middlewares * Split configuration of imagecaster and the logger for better organization and more control of load order * Added ExitCodes enum to collate and document exit codes * WIP interpolator for interpolating strings for image metadata (exif/iptc) * Added GitHub funding/PR stuff for GitHub mirror

README.md, after:

# ImageCaster [![matrix-members]][matrix] [![discord-members]][discord] [![gitlab-build]][gitlab] [![gitlab-coverage]][gitlab] [![donate-shield]][elypia-donate]
## About
ImageCaster is a small CLI application that can be used to manage exporting images.
It's primary use case is for CI/CD where a repository that has a set of images as a source
and programatically produces images as a result of a build.

An example, and motivation for this is the [Elypia Emotes] repository where we have
many images, which we'd like exported in many different sizes and colors, as well as
to dynamically generate images to display on the project README.

## Features
* Instead of scripting, define a declarative configuration that describes the output you want.
* Quicker consecutive builds, ImageCaster will manage if changes occured and if re-exported again is required.
* Set [Exif] data for output, for example the `Copyright` or `Artist` tag.
* Define patterns (directory/[glob]/[regex]) to match images and create montages to display to users.
* Define patterns (directory/[glob]/[regex]) to to match images and archive images for download.
* Define checks to ensure your repository standards are maintained and to avoid mistakes like mismatching names.

## Example
```yml
export:
  input: "src/static/panda(.+).png"
  exif:
    - tag: "Artist"
      value: "Elypia CIC and Contributors"
  sizes:
    dimensions:
      - height: 512
      - height: 128
  colors:
    mask: "src/static/masks/panda$1.mask.png"
    modulate:
      - name: "blue"
        hue: 0
      - name: "violet"
        saturation: 70
        hue: 50
checks:
  - name: "file-exists"
    args:
      source: "src/static/panda(.+).png"
      target: "src/static/projects/panda$1.psd"
```
> First we define a pattern which matches all of our input images.
> For each image we add the Exif tag, `Artist`, and export 6 versions of each image to 
> accomodate original, blue, and violet colors, in 512px, and 128px sizes.
> Doing `imagecaster build` will do all of this for you.  
> You may wish to use `imagecaster check` first to perform all checks, in this case
> only one check is defined which states if a mask exists, then an image must also exist
> with the respective name.

## Open-Source
This project is open-source under the [GNU General Public License]!  
While not legal advice, you can find a [TL;DR] that sums up what
you're allowed and not allowed to do along with any requirements if you want to 
use or derive work from this source code!  

**All non-code files including videos, models, audio, bitmaps, vectors, and 
animations such as gifs, are not under the aforementioned license; all rights
are reserved by Elypia CIC.** 

[matrix]: https://matrix.to/#/+elypia:matrix.org "Matrix Invite"
[discord]: https://discordapp.com/invite/hprGMaM "Discord Invite"
[gitlab]: https://gitlab.com/Elypia/imagecaster/commits/master "Repository on GitLab"
[elypia-donate]: https://elypia.org/donate "Donate to Elypia"
[Elypia Emotes]: https://gitlab.com/Elypia/elypia-emotes "Elypia Emotes"
[Exif]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exif "Exif on Wikipedia"
[glob]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glob_(programming) "Glob on Wikipedia"
[regex]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression "Regular Expression on Wikipedia"
[GNU General Public License]: https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html "AGPL"
[TL;DR]: https://tldrlegal.com/license/gnu-general-public-license-v3-(gpl-3) "TLDR of AGPL"

[matrix-members]: https://img.shields.io/matrix/elypia-general:matrix.org?logo=matrix "Matrix Shield"
[discord-members]: https://discordapp.com/api/guilds/184657525990359041/widget.png "Discord Shield"
[gitlab-build]: https://gitlab.com/Elypia/imagecaster/badges/master/pipeline.svg "GitLab Build Shield"
[gitlab-coverage]: https://gitlab.com/Elypia/imagecaster/badges/master/coverage.svg "GitLab Coverage Shield"
[donate-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Elypia-Donate-blueviolet "Donate Shield"
